No, just.
Umm, before we just kind of jump into the interviews.
Yeah, just quickly. Just want to thank the team. I know time is so valuable for everyone and you guys taking the time to really get on these calls, provide your input, your perspective so valuable because you know in our credit world, sometimes we have our own definitions of things and just hearing from you guys so valuable to help our customers and really it makes us realize what a huge opportunity we have and.
Yeah.
I recognized long time ago we can't do it ourselves, right? We need you guys. We need the CX team. We need everyone's help to make sure that we're helping this while managing the customers. Our customers along with the business itself. So appreciate you guys taking the time to go on these calls.
Great. Thanks for cash.
Umm, yeah, let's. So let's let's get started with the interview question. First question being, uh, what is reducing AR? Why is reducing AR so important and how will this ultimately benefit our customers and investors?
Yeah. So first of all, I, I, I wanna echo Rock's comments there. This is this fantastic to see this group of folks on this call. So critically important work and my sincere thank you as well.
Umm.
You know, there's so many things that happen from a cash perspective for the company when it comes to accounts receivables.
You know, I had some options, so I on the people know my background but my actual background is in accounting and finance. And so I worked very closely with the treasures department and with financial reporting when I worked at Duke Energy.
Umm, so I have a pretty deep understanding of the importance of how the money flows through the company and when I had the opportunity to take on the responsibility that I have today, I was pretty excited about because it kind of reconnected to my actual roots in how I started in the utility business. When we think about our financial exposure today of having almost a billion dollars in accounts receivables, it's it's really.
I'd say a very tenuous situation for our company.
You know, we have all kinds of other financial structures and mechanisms to offset that and to deal with it, but it comes at a cost.
Yeah. And so I'd say the more uncertainty that we have in our financial situation, the more expensive it becomes for our partners in treasury and finance to do their work in procuring the funds that we need to run this business. And so the role that we play in all this is very important to the company. And I think as everyone knows, structurally from a regulatory perspective, there have been some pretty strong constraints with what we can and can't do and at what pace we can do those things.
And as a result, we've seen these balances rise over the last few years to unprecedented levels. And so as that's happened, the more that happens, the more pressure we put on our company to be able to deliver on our product.
Until reducing that balance is paramount for us in reducing it within the constraints of the compliance requirements set forth by regulators, that's an extra degree of difficulty because as everyone on this call realizes, we reaching those compliance mechanisms, their fees and penalties and headline news possibilities that come out as a result. So it's really probably one of those few moments in our history in the utility business where we see a utility like PG&E.
Prior to Cobit already struggling financially right for a number of reasons.
Now, seeing this additional financial exposure and the growth of AR over the last two to three years approaching 1 billion, probably slightly over at times.
The importance of reducing that is beyond comparison. For anything else that's happening at this company, because it what it does is it facilitates our ability for borrowing funds at a market cost versus the premiums that we're paying today.
I mean, to me that's really what it boils down to, because being in, you know, having accounts receivable and you know having to, you know, borrow money to, you know, run the business, that's not unheard of for your utility. But the mechanisms that we have to use today and the financial structures and instruments that we have to utilize, they're not, let's say, premium for us. They're not the primary tools that we prefer to use. And it's because of our current financials and AR is 1 component of that. That's not the only driver. There are other things that are happening with the company that caused us to.
Have to to do things that are not financially as viable as I would like for them to be.
And so if to the extent that we can affect that and reduce that financial exposure, our goal Git is to reduce the financials around around the AR balance. And so that's why it's important from a finance perspective.
Right. And then if we think about creating prosperity for all Californians, our ability to actually help them pay their bills, and then when I say help.
And I'm just gonna, I'll say it bluntly to everyone on this call. Help doesn't necessarily mean that we socialize all the costs. Help doesn't necessarily mean that we are putting all these mechanisms in place to just erase the balances that they owe.
Umm help really is about information.
And about getting them on payment plans, making sure that they understand their commitments and how they adhere to those commitments.
That's help also right. And so I I think those are the types of things that you know we have to continue to really explore and push on for with regard to what we can do for our customers and.
I I think there's something there that.
You know, we probably continue to probe on a bit more as a company.
But as I say that I also recognize that we are probably the first ones out of the gate and have been much more aggressive than our other utility partners in in California. We've done a lot already, much more than the other utilities, but we're not done yet, right, because we see those balances continue to go up even after the application of CAPP even after we've it applied the climate credits, all those types of things because the behaviors now have changed, right. And the consequences are.
Not nearly as compelling for those that don't adhere and don't pay.
And so there's a whole ecosystem that's been created over the last three years that's caused us to be in this situation that we're in today.
So I'll I'll stop there, you know, cause you know, I can probably talk straight from the next hour, but that's my initial reaction to your to your question.
Yeah, I think actually something you you just triggered a a memory and from our call last week around or thought on customer behaviors and even leading up to you know the pandemic you know we've been challenged with kind of hang off this receiving cash back on debt.
Customers have.
Kind of established bad habits, right? As as a result from the bed pandemic and probably magnify those those behaviors. So what does a good experience look like for a customer that is behind on their bills?
Yet, you know I I'd say first and foremost that they truly understand the channels, you know, in which they can utilize to connect with us, right. So there's no confusion about how you talk with the utility, how you talk with PG&E and that we are truly viewed as being local for them, right? So a positive customer experience for someone that's behind is that they can easily reach out. There's no confusion about how to connect with us. We can easily reach out to them as well and channels that they typically would experience in other parts of their lives.
Right. So.
For me, at least, when I went to engage with, you know, a financial institution.
Heck, half the time I can do that via a chat session or text messaging and all kinds of other easy ways to do business, and I get what I need out of those interactions. I think for customers that need to look at ways to pay off their balances when they're in the reaches, you know, what are those challenges that they're used to using in other parts of their lives?
Right. They're higher probability. They're probably not logging into a website.
To figure out their balance and go through all the steps it takes to pay that bill or set up a a payment plan if they're calling it that contact Center for that business.
They're probably shopping around because we're not getting the answer that they want.
Right. And so.
How do we mitigate?
The customer's desire to shop for the answer they want.
How do we ensure that they?
Our communicating with us and we're communicating with them in ways that are just natural parts of how they do business in other parts of their lives, so that it's not some separate anomaly that they're dealing with. Oh, now I have to pay PG and you have to do something completely different that I normally wouldn't have to do if I were engaging with having to pay my car note or something else.
So those are the types of things that I would want us to continue to look at, right, that seamless experience that connects with other aspects of their lives.
Umm, I don't think we're quite there yet. Right. I think we do a really good job in many ways, but we're probably not as up to date on technology and capabilities as other parts of the customers experience when it comes to the obligations that they have with other vendors or retailers.
No like that. That's a good call out about trying to kind of mirror what the experience is like with other vendors.
That's where. That's good. Good.
You could call out.
So from your perspective, what do you think are the greatest opportunities we have to reduce AR and then the greatest challenges as well?
You know for a reduction.
In in rockets noses I I think that.
You know, some of the work that's already in flight, right? And I know the work quite well in terms of all the the, the various ways that we're attacking the issue, I'd say we keep doing those things, right. The coordination with the field in terms of shutoff, non pay, ensuring that we are hearing to all the compliance requirements. So we don't trigger any inadvertent penalties or fees or anything like that. So I mean those are like basic fundamental things.
I'd also say that to the extent that we can utilize more technology.
Umm. And what I mean by that is, you know, are we able to, you know utilize our platforms so that when we ping a customer that's to say that we were able to test a customer and say, OK, your bills coming to you or you're behind your bill and they can respond back and pay via text message.
Right. And so their privacy issues related to that, they're all kinds of reasons why we haven't done that yet. But the technology exists, you can definitely do that. And so again, going back to what's the easiest way for us to connect these customers and actually make that experience the right experience with them? Those are the types of things that we'll be looking at.
And was there a second part or the continuing part of that question?
Ohh yeah, just like greatest challenges.
Yeah.
I think honestly and I I don't look for.
I don't. I'm not one to look for excuses and look at, you know, the actual ecosystem itself, but I think they're.
You know, with the best of intentions, I think some of the.
The structure that's been put in place with regard to our regulatory environment.
Continues to be a challenging situation for all the utilities in California.
Would I ideally like to see is horse to take a strategy back to our regulators back to our lawmakers on the types of things that we should be able to do on behalf of our customers. We want to help customers as well, right? And like I said a few moments ago, help doesn't always have to come in the form of debt forgiveness.
You know, sometimes help is about accountability and responsibility.
And so how can we help customers in that way as well? Because ultimately if you can help customers in that form, then you're not creating the shared cost that drives rates up for rates up for everyone.
Like the long term impact of all the things that are in place today is that rates will go up.
Right. And so that doesn't help customers, but that's that's a longer term impact. So the short term, you know let's release some pain, well-intentioned, but it sets the utilities and our customers up for long term pain.
And so I would rather step back and say, what did the types of things we can put in place that, number one, encourage customers staying on time, paying their bills and then to the extent that they can't, would it programs that we can utilize that don't include this for giving that that really puts them on the path for success when it comes to paying their obligations.
That's a part of what I'd like to see happen as well.
Thank you. Yeah, I think one of the things that we're learning too is just you mentioned.
You know where their opportunities to improve and communications and and when I think of that, I think of setting expectations and I think one of the challenges that I've.
Yeah.
That I think about is just this regulatory requirement that we can only you know, but we can only shut off, I think 3 1/2% of our customers that qualify for this connection. So that kind of works against us if we're trying to meet trying to set the expectations for customers that you know, hey, if you don't pay, we're going to shut you off. But then if we're communicating that to a wider pool of customers, but we're only disconnecting a few.
For the sake of this conversation, it's it's like, how do we, what do we do to get around that so.
Yeah.
Definitely something I'm hoping we can try to try to find creative solutions for from this work, but if you had a oh, go ahead.
Nigam.
Well, you know that. I'm sorry. I was just gonna say the other. So. And that's why I I put the point in there around what's the regulatory conversation from a strategy perspective, right? Because if we.
Yes to everything you just said we that's the conditions that we're operating under. So let's figure out how to be efficient with within those conditions. At the same time, how do we actually affect those conditions and change them?
Yeah.
And what's the company's appetite to do that? Because I I'm thinking more around I, I know that rock is in team and all our partners on this call. We're gonna, I have complete faith that we will operate within these constraints and maximize and do all kinds of great things to extent possible. I believe that.
I think these conversations will help further that effort. At the same time, the play that I'm really starting to probe on with our partners in regulatory and our friends in Sacramento, it's really more around how do we actually affect the actual ecosystem and change the rules of engagement.
Because that's really where I think the the you know, the real opportunity for all of us will be as we maximize and operate within the current construct, does that make sense?
Yeah.
Kind of wonder if we need regulatory on the call, but maybe maybe not yet, but.
Folks, yeah, yeah.
I think regulatory and I I think government, government affairs, state government affairs, those are key partners for us as well.
And just to get their perspective, because at the end of the day.
They're trade-offs in all these things, right? And so if.
State of affairs has a play to make in Sacramento. This may not be that chip they want to cash in because there's something else that play for the company.
And says this, knowing where we rank out at, I think we develop a strategy.
And we explain it, we rationalize it, we get buy in on it and then it's a lever.
For them, like, do we play this card now? Do we play this chip now or do we hold off because there's something else that we need to have? You know, the folks in Sacramento say yes to, but we need to have a fully baked approach on what we wanna see changed in the current environment. That's a part of what I'd like to see come out of this work as well.
Right.
So last question I have for you, if you had a magic wand to accomplish one thing around this subject, what would he do?
Umm, besides everyone just paying their bills on time, something is. You know, I, I I would just say that.
You know, I really do believe that part of our job is to create prosperity across the state in this, in this environment that we operate in because you know, as Northern California goes, so this California, right, as California goes, so does the rest of the US and as us goes, you have global impact. And so and I say that with humility, but I believe it very strongly. And so I think that.
As we sit here today, we really are an anomaly. The way that we have handled the economic downturn, primarily as a result of COVID, no one else is doing that.
Yeah, all the other utilities they may have had brief windows.
In some protections in place, but nothing to the extent that we have here.
Alright, so when I look at my prior company, Duke Energy.
I've got some friends that excel some friends at center point. All these companies there's some variation of protections for customers at the advent of COVID.
But it was brief. It was short lived.
Umm.
And you know, your customers made it through, you know, the economic during downturn and the COVID, just like everyone else did.
And that's a generalization, but it's again fairly true, and I think we've just really over rotated in California. And I think it's pretty it's put.
Not only the utilities and the precarious situation, but also our customers.
And so if I had a magic wand beyond just saying, hey, everyone paid their bills on time. I think again, for me, the bigger play is like our regulatory environment and how we actually impact that mindset around what does it mean to actually help.
Customers.
What does that look like in today's world?
Umm, because I I I don't believe we found the right answer just yet.
And I think utilities should have a bigger voice in that design.
Umm instead of just being takers of, you know, whatever the compliance obligations are, we actually are helping shape, you know what they should be, you know, obviously the CPU C has a clear role to play.
Our politicians have a clear role to play in all of this as well, but one thing to have a bigger voice that has influence and impact as it relates to this particular subject. That would be something that I would love to see happen because I because I do think there are other good ideas outside of just the utilities.
So I'd love to get those voices in the conversation.
I just don't think that that's what's happened to date and we find ourselves now at over a billion dollars in accounts receivables and averages and so forth from the.
And we see the financial impact on the company.
So I talked to Mari Becker at least once or twice a week on our financial sickness, current state, everything from, you know, the cash impacts of it to the debt structure, how we borrow money, how much that money costs for us to borrow.
A lot of it runs right through the fact that we have such a heat balance in AR.
So I would want to really drastically change the environment that created that.
Right. Thank you for your.
Branch and all of our questions really insightful to hear your perspective and thoughts.
Umm I wanna open it up actually to to the rest of the team to ask questions. If you guys have any questions for Vincent that you like to ask specifically.
Mm-hmm.
And Vincent, if you have questions for us or or the rest of the team as well, I feel free to.
I I do have some questions, but I'll hold off with just a moment and see if there's anything else that I can answer. If I need to dive in anything little bit deeper that I mentioned, I'm happy to do that.
Yep, Dave.
OK.
Events I'm gonna ask, I got, you know, I got some rapid fire questions and you don't have to answer these if you if you know, if you don't have precise answers for them. But I'm I'm kind of wanna flesh out some of the current state of the way the processes are today just so that we have it for, for creating our source of truth as we're going through these processes. So this is from your perspective to the best of your knowledge and again you can defer if you don't like to or someone else on the call.
Probably has a better answer. They can chime in as well, but you mentioned a lot about, you know having a strategy going forward for improving this experience and making it easier for customers to go through text message payment. But there's privacy and security concerns, but I am curious, just like in this moment like what steps are we currently taking in these regards like what are the open projects right now that are happening? If you can just rattle some off the top of your head that the teams are focused on today?
Like in you know in some of this is in rock's shop, but there are other conversations that are happening outside of that. So we are taking another look at our interpretation of some of the the privacy acts within the state of California. What do they actually mean? I think there's some technology capability questions that Chris and I are talking about as well. I know that Rocus has been talking to Kubra about some of their capabilities in terms of receiving and processing payments. And so those are things that are in flight today. Rock don't know if there's anything else you wanna add to that, but that's my.
Immediate reaction to your question, Dave.
Right.
Yeah. And they're just to kinda yes. And a couple of things we did during this pandemic leading up to us, even starting our collection processes that we haven't done in the past, we've added a emails pass through emails for customers. We also have added text messaging to the past due customers. They're not, we're not there yet to text to Click to pay yet, but we are sending text messages customer letting them know that their accounts are passed due working very closely with our partners at the contact center. We have, you know, set up a dialer for these customers. That's really around customers past due and letting them.
Yeah.
Auto serve to the IVR itself when there accounts are the link going. We have multiple different campaigns with our low income team around promoting Li Heap with our customer. So we're doing that each quarter that we're actually sending out communication and we see uptick every time that we do that communication piece with our customers on it. And so a bunch of other stuff going on text to pay is coming just so you know part of this is just in Bob's College if I run, but we are still waiting for the web redesign platform has to be done before we can do the test.
To pay functionality. So once that's done, that's gonna be a phase of it. And then the big thing is we're working with RIA and team to also get customer insights. So we have bunch of interviews, actually some of them kind of things starting tomorrow with our customers who have been disconnected asking what was their experience and these customers actually disconnected and restored, right. So kind of a point of reference is 80% of our customers to store within 48 hours after a disconnection. So we're really trying to figure out where.
What did you miss? What could we then differently through all these different communication channels? Two that would have prompted to pay versus the disconnection so?
Yeah.
Just suppose things are going on.
Yeah. And then maybe the other thing I add to that, thanks rockets will is and this again this is outside of Rocco's team. But one of the things I also think pretty important is bill presentment. So our customers often complain about the complexity of our bills. It's hard to read and understand. And so we're leaving a whole another body of work on just making it simple for customers to understand their bill. That's just one more hurdle for customers as it relates to their ability to pay and it drives calls into the contact center, which is something that we don't want to have happen.
Often, thank you guys. I see you guys got her hand up here.
And that was the perfect lead in as we don't want to drive calls into the contact center. Actually, Dave asked one of my questions, but to back up a bit.
To what extent does do the intervener groups understand since COVID that providing more protections and more like guidelines doesn't necessarily equal customers getting back to a solvent state? So what's the temperature check on the intervener groups because they typically will lean on the, you know, regulatory restrictions that usually we see coming out of that.
Yeah, it's a great question. I think there's awareness of the impact that it has on the utilities, financials. I think there's there's an understanding that there's there's no excuse for them. They they know, OK, because we've had conversations about the impact.
At the same time, they still fundamentally believe that their course of actions are the right actions to take on behalf of customers.
And so that's where.
Have their role.
Yeah.
Yes, that's where the challenge is. So even with quote UN quote the facts and the impact that's having on our financial situation, they believe this is the right course.
And like I I when I mentioned earlier the the longer term effect of these.
Um, you know, constraints are in place. You'll see them. See this bleed back into our rates over time.
Umm.
Right, but not not the immediate impact. The immediate impact is, hey, we just gave this customer a bunch of relief and that should help them right now. And that's kind of where their mindset is.
You know PDF's, I mean, quite honestly, PDF's financial situation.
They're probably not nearly as concerned about.
That's this, you know, real talk about where we are. It's about the relationship that we have with our regulators. It's about the relationship we have with the politicians and Sacramento are also making some decisions.
We're just not where we need to be.
In terms of credibility, in terms of truly having the ability to affect what's being dictated to us. And so to me, you know, if you go back to Reece question on, you know, magic wand, I think again, just really just that awareness in that you're talking about and belief of the information that's another element of it because you know at the end of the day.
And I'll use this term an unhealthy.
Utility is bad for everyone, not just for PD and and the and our coworkers. It's bad for the entire ecosystem.
They would want us to be a healthy institution. They want us to be stable. They should want that. And so some of the things are in place today caused us not to be as sure footed as we could. And again with best of intentions. So I'm not knocking them. I'm just saying that they're approach has a ripple effect that puts us in a different challenging situation at times. And so the real question is can we solve for their desire to help take care of customers in the same way that we want to solve for our and for those same customers.
Is there plates to meet to say? OK, this is the approach that can really help customers and maintain financial viability for the utility.
Umm.
That's the question at hand, and right now it feels as if the answer has been take care of customers and then you deal with the financial impact on the backside, you're coming monopoly, you can handle it and deal with it. Right. And again, you won't see the impact of this until much further down the road and some of the in terms of rates. But the immediate impact has everything you do with our debt financing, how we pay procure funding to pay and run this business, those things are pretty immediate, but unless you're actually in the business.
You may not see it as apparently.
Yeah. What we will see, I think almost immediately are are you know our voiceover customer feedback will start, it will start to show there possible formal complaints to the CPUC.
Yeah.
And so I, you know, I think we've kind of swung the pendulum to some, you know, in some cases to the extreme sides over the over the years. And it's this whack a mole approach. We tighten our guidelines. We don't necessarily have a lot of technology solutions to make it easier. So it's really just our coworkers reinforcing. These are our guidelines and then we see complaints rise and then, you know, we we become laxed again so.
In a sense, we've trained our customers and have motivated them to shop for the best offer they can get and I think looking at this long term and being strategic, I think we've done this so many times. Now we we have to know complaints are going to increase by X percent and and you know. So from my perspective, not having the CSR's try to.
Yeah.
And maintain a position and then we have to change the policy again and go back to a lack state. I think that's if you ask me what our biggest challenges are, I would say our policies, you know having to shift because of customer behavior and it's showing up in another area like customer SAT.
Right.
Yep.
No, I think that's a great call. I I totally agree with you. And I I think so. Would you go back to our strategy, right, a part of strategy is acknowledging the ripple effect of certain things that we would put in place like it here into a standard and recognizing that adhering to a standard may increase the probability of some dissatisfied customers that we may see in CSAT, for example, and eyes wide open, are we willing to take that hit for the greater good?
Right. So that that begins to change how we think about the business and knowing the the risk and opportunities and how we deal with that.
That's that's what I'm suggesting when I talk about strategy and then really sticking with the strategy for the long term and recognizing along the way they're going to be some bumps. But it's all heading in the right direction.
Am I I?
I'm with you where we owe it to our coworkers, our CSR's in particular, to have a standard that they know. If they stand on it.
We'll right there with them and we have their back.
And also to the extent that maybe that stand in the short term negatively effects customer satisfaction based on the verbatims and this scores and so forth that we stand.
Brown.
Because it will pass and we set a new behavioral set, right? And once we set that, then customers know well this is how they operate now you know, and I I don't talk a lot about Duke Energy but.
You know.
The rules were the rules, and customers knew that and and as a result.
You know, they're reaches their relationship with the Commission, they consistency and the application of those standards.
While difficult at first.
The consistency is withdrawal the behavior.
Right. And drove the relationship with the Commission in the right right direction and ultimately for our CSR, they made for a better work experience for them as well.
Because Todd, extent, they were getting shocked by customers, they were all giving a very consistent answer.
Right.
And we weren't pulling the rug out from underneath them, saying, oh, well, you know, you really should have given on this one a little bit because, you know, we got some wiggle room here. And so there's something about that too that I want to see if that pretty directly.
It makes sense ina.
Absolutely does, and we do have opportunity, Matt and I just, we're on a call 76% of our customers that are eligible for pay plans still talk to a CSR.
Yeah.
Yes.
When they they can manage their pay plan and be contained in the IVR. So as we you know work to get things these things in place I think 1 having channel parity on what our requirements are eventually I think we'll get there. It will stop customers from shopping.
You're so spoiled, and that's what I'm talking. So again, so with the Duke, any energy experience, that kind of behavior from customers wasn't really happening. It would happen sometimes, but it wasn't a generalized behavior because they knew no matter where they went, they're gonna get the same response and same answer.
Right. And they came to believe.
Umm.
Yeah.
Based on their lived experiences that actually IVR was faster, if I'm going to get the same answer anyway, I'm actually just go through IVR, we'll go online. It just had a complete ripple effect that was very positive for the entire you know, customer group.
What else?
Yeah.
I have a question, Vincent, regarding changing kind of the landscape and the ecosystem. Are you are you aware of what the other California IOU are, are interested in or is there discussion being had around this currently? And can you share what you know?
Yeah, it's interesting. Umm they have. They have.
They have similar concerns, but it's different because of our bankruptcy.
Right. And so they were in a much more stable financial situation prior to COVID than we were. So the impact of all these regulations.
I'd say it's been exponential for PG&E, although their growth from our percentile basis on the reaches is actually, I think higher than ours. In some cases. It's just that they financial situation with stronger. So they're operating from a position of strength and they absorb it a bit better than we could.
Right. So they're concerned, but they're not in the same type of scenario that we are in when it comes to going to borrow for funding or any types of debt instruments that they need to lean on to run their business. They're just in a different financial situation than we are, but they're concerned, but not for the same reasons that we are.
And I have talked to my peers about this and they're just not in the same place. So we would be.
I think they love to see us out there pushing for, you know, different regulations and different laws.
And if it seems like it's going our way, they'll probably line up with this, but I don't think they'll be front and center on it at this point.
Yeah.
Dave.
Alright, let me try and.
He's just together my head here. So from your perspective, again vents.
How does our company determine who's the most at risk of falling behind on their bills? Like, do we have what kind of information does our are we allowed to use and and determine in terms of the criteria for who we're deciding to shut off? And since we're only able to get that 3 1/2% or we, how confident are we that that's that is the most appropriate group? Are we ensuring that we're getting all the?
You know access and functional needs folks out of that equation and and keep in low income folks out of that. So just do you, what's your your familiarity with this criteria and is there opportunity to you know Polish it up?
Yeah. You know, I think they're always opportunities to get a little bit tighter on our process, but you know, we look at and rockets feel free to jump into jumping on this as well. But we certainly know customers accounts and know their behaviors. We know whether or not they're care customers, whether or not they've received any additional funding from us and whatnot. They're on app. For example, you're rich management program, whether or not they receive any CAPP funding. I mean, there's so many different variables that we track in order to ensure that we are, I'd say, pursuing.
The right right segmentation.
Are there opportunities within that process as we segment the customers? I I think absolutely so. But I don't believe that we.
I don't believe we've maximized the potential, but that's the path that we own because keep in mind we're just restarting this process and that's and we're seeing benefits from it, right. And so I think Rocket said this, but.
We may send out a lot of notices not having the intention of cutting off those folks, right? But the notices themselves trigger an action from customers.
And we see them paying what I'm concerned about is.
You know, for the customers that truly just don't want to be good actors.
If they start to believe that these are false, you know request.
They may start to ignore some of that.
O part of our job is just going to be consistency and messaging and being real clear about the importance and the severity of the situation that they're in and making sure they they are aware of the different avenues that they can take. But the general answer and if you can get into all the tactical things that rock is gonna team does, but the general answer is yes, we have a pretty clear line of sight around customer segmentation. We know who owes this money. We know what categories they fit into. We also know the constraints in which we have to operate the thresholds that we have to.
Exceed all those things are variables that his team is triangulating every single day. So to me the the, the real play for us is.
The the larger communication to customers that will incentivize them to actually pay.
Knowing that sometimes that larger communication.
We don't have the ability to actually follow up and actually take action on right. So that's there's something there that we we've yielded some good results on it.
Umm, but I don't. I mean times in go to that. Well, you know and again we're just restarting now. And so the response has been pretty strong because we are just restarting now. But at some point the educated customer is paying attention that this again doesn't necessarily want to pay their bill even though they can pay their bill and they start to react differently in the future, they're gonna keep coming up, right? That's another thing too that we see with some of these customers is that it's a bitul thing.
Is not like, Oh my gosh, I fell behind that. Need help this month and I'm good, you know, for the next five years. And it won't happen again. A lot of these customers are repeat.
Right. And a lot of these customers do have the ability to pay, but they also recognize that.
You know, sort of non pay is probably the the the scenario that would create create for them to actually be turned off. There's so many hoops there.
Daughter in their favor at this point.
But you know, rocks down looking like anything else to that. But that's that's my perspective on it.
No, you're spot on, they said. I mean, generally speaking, you know, we typically look at like the oldest debt which called AFDA like different buckets. So we wanna get the oldest one first, not necessarily to balance it. So we have multiple formula like this is spot on where there's so many different requirements from the Commission around how many customers we can disconnect the ZIP code letter level based on whether constrictions based on think on the PayPal or not. So there are times where we might not be locking the best available customer but who are available at to be disconnected because.
There's also a window when we can disconnect the customer after they're notices, right? And so kind of circles back to us having those.
Policies I agree in place that you know customers kind of work the system right? Some people know the systems better than we do, right? They know when they call for a pay plan, continue to extend the pay plan or not. And that kind of takes them out of that option. But there is this opportunity I think where we can kind of get better at problem working with your team eventually to kind of look at some additional propensity to pay modeling for these customers, right. Who has the money is not paying versus folks that are really struggling. Maybe there's a different platform right now. But as we resumed our practices right now, we're just taking this.
Yeah.
Last approach, like just everyone, is getting all the communication. But I do think in time we can get very much much better at very specific on hey, this customer pays by text messaging. Somebody gonna send a text and not worry about him versus this other customer. You know what? We've already sent them text messaging another things affected. So I'm gonna maybe fast laying them through the disconnection process. We're not there yet.
But I think that's what we wanna get to.
Yeah. And I would just say that.
You know, again, if you think about our role when we're here to help our customers, there's no question about that. And so I'm not viewing customers as you know, folks that don't honor their obligations at the same time, I also know that we created an environment that has facilitated certain type of behavior that really positions the company in a way that it puts us at financial risk.
That's what I'm trying to that we want to change that.
Right. And so the rules and the behavior of the utilities of our regulators, of our politicians, of our customers have.
Brought us to the point they were at today.
The one group that we know we can control will be our behavior and what we do and how we enforce those rules. We know we can do that and we know their opportunities even within the constraints that we have today to show up a little bit differently.
We also know that we've probably overinterpreted what compliance means in certain situations.
Right. And so how do we start making those types of changes?
So that we can actually drive the right reaction and behavior from our customers.
At the same time, as we start really thinking through what if we had the ability to shape policy strategy interactions with the Commission, interactions with the politicians in Sacramento, and we had it plan, that really suggested here are the steps that we want to put in place.
Which is something that's not impossible. We all there's a strong point of view around this. We've had many conversations, Marlene and I have talked about it. So I think that work will happen. Then the question becomes, how does that recommendation or that strategy rank?
As relates to the things that the company is pushing for, whether it's at the CPU, C or in Sacramento, because ultimately it's still going to be a trade off.
Right. Is that like I said earlier, is that the the chip you wanna play?
Versus maybe something else?
And so that's that begins to. But to get to that point where you even have to make that decision, we need to have a comprehensive strategy around the approach and so.
You know, I completely different talk topic, but what I said to someone on on a different issue, as I said to them, you know.
The importance of of PG&E and I say this with humility, is that, you know, we're not price takers in, you know, we actually can make our way here, right. And so I think that we have been as a company, probably a bit more.
Probably a little bit added disadvantage because of the history on some of the things that happened, you know, over the last 10 to 15 years.
But there's so many leverage that we're not pulling.
That most utilities utilized that are just basic foundational things. And so how do we get to that point where we can start doing some of those things, recognizing that we have to overcome some of the brand and credibility challenges that we have that maybe other utilities don't have.
We are approaching time here, but it just a quick follow up to that question events or to that response Vince?
Would one of these levers like this could be yes or no to your and your and your eyes?
Yeah.
Throttling meters. Is this something that's feasible for PGE to do? In other words, rather than having to go through the whole disconnect process, if there are some interim solution where we can somehow, you know, get a light flickering to sort of indicate your power is gonna go off soon as one of these communication tools. Right. So now solution in this moment but is that, have you seen other utilities do something like this? Are we capable of doing something like this? Are we out that no questions because of regulations would have you, what are your thoughts?
Well, I I have not seen that. I I understand what you say. I haven't seen it.
You know, hey, I would just be II, just so I I don't really know if that's something that we would ever have an appetite to do. But what I do think we should have an appetite for is the ability to actually turn people off to the extent that we have the ability to do it, we just need to do it.
In Neil, I think rock is you say within 48 hours like what, 80% of the folks actually pay.
So and again and again, I'm not saying this to disparage any of our customers, but that data points suggests to me that they have the ability to pay their bills.
Right. And those that don't, we're here for them and we will help them.
Right. There's so many other mechanisms and channels and ways that we can help customers, but we have to really get to the bottom of the issue and those that can and should pay. Let's collect that money, right. And those that really are struggling, let's help them.
But right now, it's all commingled together, so you know flickering lights. And hey, I love the I love the brainstorming it. To me, it's like activating on our current abilities to pursue the funds that we owed. I think that's what's important because ultimately it helps the financial viability of this company. It also impacts the overall rates that we will have for our customers in long in the long term. So everyone benefits when customers pay their bills on time.
Or at least there's certainty where they're on a payment plan that they that they adhere to because the amount of shopping has been mitigated extremely and not getting different answers. And I looking for different ways to to play the system and the certainty. That's what drives a more economic financial transaction for our folks in the Treasury Department when they're going out into the market trying to borrow funds because now investors and folks that are lending US money recognized that we have certainty in our in our portfolio when it comes to.
Our accounts receivable and that's what drives a different response from from that marketplace.
Great.
Hi I just want to uh, thanks for that Vincent. I want to recognize the time. I know this meeting was scheduled till 4:50. I don't know if anyone has a few more minutes or if not.
Uh, we can end now. I know you had some questions, though, Vincent for us, so.
Umm.
Yeah, yeah.
I just put it out there. I don't know if anyone can still stay on the line or.
Yeah, I I can go one more way. I have someone that just open up another line for me. I have another call, but I can go a couple minutes. I I do have one question. I'm just curious.
From your perspective, when you think about the challenge that we're facing today as it relates to our arrearages and what's happening with those balances and we've seen the impact of CAP CAP again is a very short lived like, OK, we dropped it by 200,000,000, but within a matter of months you see those balances rise back up because we did not affect behavior, right. And so from the work that you're doing and all the interviews and so forth, is there a key theme around what does it mean to actually help customers?
Because you've heard my perspective. What help can take many forms? And so I'm curious if anyone wants to tell me or share with me like your individual perspective on what help means when it comes to our customers.
And I'm not dropping off until I get at least one response, so I can tell you that.
Yeah, yeah.
I've talked a lot, so I was waiting to see give anyone else before.
Ohh.
I.
Do it. Julie got her hand up.
Any other brave souls out there? July. OK.
Thank you. I think I think when I think I've helping our customers it on it earlier, I I think a big part of it is education it's.
It's helping them understand options. It's helping them understand how to self-serve. It's because Vincent to your it's not about, you know, continuing to throw them a lifeline and just putting them further behind. We've gotta start helping our customers get caught up. It's it's a vicious cycle that unfortunately. And I'm not gonna say PGE. I'm gonna say the state of California.
Umm.
Helped create through COVID it's, but we've gotta help them understand what is available to them and and how they can take care of that on their own and help them become self-sufficient.
Yeah. No, thanks for that, Julie. I I'm right there with you. I totally agree with your your assessment.
And looks like we have another. Is it Chris or Christopher?
OK.
Either or. So I I think you need to kind of touch to it earlier too is I think it's a little bit of that tough love I think.
Uh, honestly, a lot of people.
Are allowed a lot of people do struggle, but there's also a lot of people that carry those balances because they know they can't. That it it's we're kind of like almost like a savings account for them. You know, so.
Uh, I think a little tough love.
Uh, and that changed that customer behavior would put us back into getting in the right track of everything, so.
Yeah, I I totally agree with you and and you know and again for those that really need help, we're here, we will help absolutely. There's no question about that.
But there is a difference. There's a there's a mixed bag there, and we've got to sort that out.
Quick question from yeah, Kim.
It's like we have one more person, Kim, OK.
Yep. So just one of my thoughts is just some more consistency. It seems like we do a lot of knee jerk reactions and we go one way and then it's we over, correct. Yes. We're directed to do a lot of stuff, but you know really thinking through what's the right way to go ahead and address whatever it may be. You know what I mean.
Yes.
Insistency is important and I and I'll I'll I'll share this last comment and then I I do need to drop.
The amount of attention that this particular topic receives at the EOT level, it's real and so I've been in plenty of conversations where we've had to show the segmentation of the billion dollars and the grouping of the categories there to Patty and to the folks that report directly to him. And you know what's really.
I'm not going to say sad, but what's this really so interesting about it is each one of those segments is basically a protected group.
Right. And so because they're on a payment plan or because you know they've well AMP, for example, if they're on a MP or if they're on, it's a regular payment plan, they're groupings of buckets of dollars there that we really can't do a whole lot with unless they fall out of that category. But it adds up pretty quickly to a billion dollars. And then once you educate our senior officers about that, I think someone said this earlier is like, you know, the state of California is reacting very differently than the rest of the country when it comes. When it came to COVID and some of the economic downturn that we experience.
In the last few years, it's a very different environment.
And that's why I keep going back to my key message. So all of you is like, yes, maximize our ability that we have within the current construct meaning to that and push even take a go and maybe take some risk on a few things and some uncharted thinking on some things.
I will be right there with you and I will back you up. There's no question about that in Rockish knows that at the same time, how do we actually affect the the actual regulation itself and then some of the laws are in place.
Right, I think I think that will conclude our interview with you, Vincent.
Umm.
Thank you so much for your time.
Your perspective.
Thank you. It's good with everyone. I appreciate all the work that you're leading on this and don't hesitate to reach out to me if I can be of any service to any of you on on this or anything else. OK. Thank you. Appreciate you. Bye, bye.
Thank you. Bye to everyone.